Video: Manufacturing Lead Times | Odoo MRP
Video ID: M6EvYnXT160
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M6EvYnXT160
Playlist Index: 7
================================================================================

[Music] twinkling
Hello Odoo-ers.
Have you ever waited so long for a package you 
forgot you ordered it? 
Like when I waited two years for my KAT Atlantis keycaps? 
and I was so over them by that time, 
so I have these ones now.
You see, at Stealthy Wood, we take *Ctrl*, 
and we avoid production delays by scheduling  
orders based on production and delivery times. 
By accurately estimating delivery times,
 we ensure that the parts
 arrive just as we need them.
And Manufacturing Orders are completed just in  time for shipping. 
Now this not only eliminates 
the need to keep parts and finished product in stock, 
But it keeps us efficient because
to put it simply 
a lead time is the amount of calendar days  
that it takes for a process to be completed from 
start to finish.
now there are lots of different types of lead times, including
Customer Lead Time, which it's the number of days between  
when the product is ordered and when it's left the warehouse basically
 Now remember Odooers, this is actually important here
Whenever we're talking about Customer Lead Time,  
we're referring to the delivery lead time. 
Next, we have Manufacturing Lead Time,
or the number of days
it actually takes us to build a product. 
now in this video,
I'm going to show you a cool new feature 
inside of Odoo called... 
Days to Prepare 
Manufacturing Order
Now with it,
we'll know when we need to order necessary parts.
They are mini deadlines and reminders 
to help us finish manufacturing on time.
Now let's start clickety-clacking away 
at the essence of logistics!
All right so let's begin on the Manufacturing app
and we're going to take a quick look at
 the Sturdy Table that I'm selling.
Now we can find it by going 
up here to Products > Products
and selecting Sturdy Table. Perfect.
we're here at the product form.
Now to start (and this is important!)
We define the Manufacturing Lead Time on the product form. 
so, we'll also click on the Inventory Tab
and you'll find the
Manufacturing Lead Time field, located in 
the Logistics section over here.
In our case, we're going to say that
it takes us five days to build a Sturdy Table.
Now, the Customer Lead Time below here:
is the time between when a customer places an 
order and when we ship our sturdy table out.
We're using the 0,0 reordering rule to replenish 
our stock and plan when to begin manufacturing,  
so we can estimate that the whole process takes us 
two weeks
14 days. Now again this is also known as  
the delivery lead time and if you don't believe me, 
hover over these little question marks.
they always give you small little information and bits of stuff.
Alright, next-- let's check on the 0,0 reordering rule configs
by clicking on the Reordering Rules 
smart button up here.
Beautiful, all right now
0,0 is a nickname for a reordering rule where 
the minimum and the max quantity are both set to zero.
This means we don't want to keep 
any finished table or its components in stock.
but we'll start manufacturing one when 
a customer places an order.
So what happens if a customer cancels that order?
 Well Odoo stores that 
table and seeks to deplete it when someone else orders it,
bringing the max quantity again to zero.
now the same goes for the opposite--
when a customer orders a Sturdy Table
the forecasted quantity over 
here turns to -1 
which is a signal for Odoo to reorder and bring the number back to 
zero.
With how 0,0 works in mind, 
here's a Jose quick tip:
Click on this awesome little 
"i" and that'll take you to a lead time breakdown  
to get a better idea of when we can expect the 
finished product. 
which is a forecasted date,
 but like with all things such as forecasts...
Forecasts 
on the Replenishment Info page
calculate estimated dates based on
 lead time values (from the product 
form) and global Security lead times 
and then they output those estimated date values in calendar 
days 
meaning they don't take work center working time into account.
Now let's tackle days to supply 
components.
So let's take a look at the Bill of Materials, or BOM (for my acronym lovers)
For these Sturdy Tables so we're going to go back over here and  
select our Bill of Materials smart button and 
we're going to go right in there.
Beautiful
we'll notice that the parts needed to build the 
table are the table legs and the large wood planks 
but next let's click on this Overview and would 
you look at that:
Currently the Availability column for both the Sturdy Table and the table legs
is showing "Not Available"
because we haven't properly set up the Purchase Lead time for the table leg 
component. 
So let's take a look at the table legs 
directly from the Table
 now if we do 
that that'll actually open up the product form  
and then we're going to switch on over here to 
Purchase. And there's our problem!
We don't have a default vendor. In our case,
we're going to use 
the one we've been working with a lot.
and they said those were five dollars, and our delivery lead 
time is--  four days 
all right beautiful. Everything is set up.
manual cloud save up here
okay so if we 
go back to the BOM Overview
in our case using the breadcrumbs (which today are sourdough)
Ah, look at that!
 It went from "Not Available" to 
giving us estimated dates 
and that's because now that the 
lead time for the table legs is set up,
the report has been updated with an availability for both of 
them 
and it tells us the exact estimated date 
that we anticipate finishing manufacturing the table 
Beautiful! So based on the lead time set previously  
that we have over here
the earliest date will have 
the finished product is in nine days.
because even if we ordered the components today, 
the large wood plank comes in two days
and the table legs come in four days. 
I'd also like 
to make a quick note that the component with the longest lead time
is used to calculate the Days to 
Prepare Manufacturing order,
and I'm going to show you what that means.
So in our case, we're actually 
going to go back to the Sturdy table product page  
using the breadcrumbs and it's 
the leftmost one at this point 
all right, now that we're here
 in the Logistics area
you'll notice 
we could either manually select Days to Prepare  
Manufacturing order or compute from BoM and boom-- 
would you look at that? Beautiful 
It pulls four days, which was the longest lead time to manufacture 
or purchase the components from the BOM. Now this
is helpful when you have tons of components and 
lead times.
and now I'm going to show you a quick
summary of all of that.
Alright so in summary, 
the 14-day customer lead time
is a default timeline for producing a Sturdy Table
Five days from when 
we've placed a Sales Order, 
we get an alert on the Replenishment Report to create a Manufacturing 
Order.
Now this triggers 0,0 to get our parts from the vendor,
which arrives on the ninth 
day (June 1st).
This date is also the scheduled date on the MO,
which is the last day to begin 
manufacturing the Study Table to ship it on time
on June 6th, Odoers. 
but let's see how this 
works when we create a sales order for a different  
product, our Driftwood table
 which has all of the 
lead times set up exactly like the Sturdy Table  
we were working on earlier. Alright, so 
here we are, and
 
we're gonna make a new quotation.
and in this case our customer Tom Hanks
wants to order one Driftwood Table 
because he *cast away* his last one
Perfect-- Driftwood table...
and we are all set.
 Alright now, Tom Hanks
 while we're determining the delivery date tells us 
hey I really don't want to wait even 
one extra day.
 I'm anticipating my first meal with Wilson on this table
Let's not disappoint him. 
In our 14-day timeline for our regular customers,  
we don't even order components until the fifth day. 
Skipping all of the waiting,
we'll use the BOM Overview  
to give them an estimate of the 
soonest available table 
so we're going to go directly using our internal link
just for him; because 
we're trying to be very kind
[click] Bill of Materials  
in there.. and (BoM) Overview
all right now-- Boom!
The date's right there. The finished
 table will be ready in
seven days; two days earlier than the Forecasted 
Date I showed you before.
and that's because I have all the table legs in stock
so I only need to wait 
two days to prepare the other components 
Combined, we get five days to manufacture the table 
over here using the lead times. 
and then--
we can finish it in seven days.
Now this report can give 
accurate time estimates for different quantities as well.
Now if Tom wanted-- let's say
another table-- 
you'll see  
and we click up here and we do, two--
something else happens.
The Forecasted Date 
is updated now to show us a longer time because  
we'd have to wait the full four days for Vintage 
Goods to ship the table legs 
so we promised Tom that he will receive his table 11 days from now,
the Estimated Date, May 30th, on the BoM Overview tells us
we can ship the table out of our workshop 
in seven days
 we only need two days to procure components
 and five days to manufacture. 
We check 
the distance from our workshop in San Francisco to  
Tom's location and verbally told him to expect the 
package on June 3rd,
four days from the Estimated Date.
Then if we go back over here to the Sales Order...
Now in this new one, we go inside of Other Info (tab).. 
down here to Delivery Date
and we're going 
to set this to seven days from today. Perfect.  
would you look at that! Remember, the Delivery Date 
is the day you're planning to ship the finished product out of your workshop. 
We'll get an alert 
since we set the product to deliver sooner than the 14 days we sat on the Customer Lead Time 
shown as the Expected Date down below. 
but we can actually just ignore it because you, Odoers, have 
the power!
 Now we can save, confirm this and we're done.
Boom! Since we set our Driftwood Table with a 
0,0 Reordering Rule,
 the need will show up on  
the Replenishment Page inside of our Inventory 
app 
go to Operations > Replenishment and there we are, Odooers!
 Now with this "To Reorder" 
filter up here, 
we only see tasks that need to be done.
and this one needs to be done right 
now 
so let's reorder by selecting "Order Once"  
and what did that just do, Odoers? 
Well Odoo generates a 
Manufacturing Order for us.
Would you look at that! 
Let's hop in there. 
And looking into this on this MO
to build one Driftwood Table,  
we could see the Scheduled Date is three days from 
now since we need two days to get the component.
And would you look at that. 
We have a Purchase 
Order since we set up the 0,0 reordering  
rules for the components. Odoo automatically creates 
POs for the components that we're missing. 
now as you'll see the Order Deadline is tomorrow 
but we're just going to order it, in our case because  
we need it ASAP. 
And if we head back over here to our Manufacturing Order...
 you'll finally see  
that in yellow over here that the large wood 
planks are expected in three days. 
Now the Scheduled Date is still indicating the latest 
start time for the production
 to ensure on-time delivery.
Since we already ordered the components, 
we can begin building once they arrive so we're  
on track to finish before the May 30th deadline.
Beautiful, Odoo-ers, and there you have it!
Odoo makes estimating dates and planning productions easy. 
While 0,0 gives you a comprehensive view of scheduled
 dates to ensure timely manufacturing .
Now check out our other videos on planning and the Master Production Schedule
coming out soon, 
for more scheduling features.   
Goodbye for now Odoo-ers ~
Go grab a snack. And if no one's 
told you today, you're doing great. These are hard