Video: Production Costs | Odoo MRP
Video ID: G4elSiAOLlY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4elSiAOLlY
Playlist Index: 49
================================================================================

Hello doers. My name is Jose Ignasio.
Today we're talking about production
costs. Here at Stealthy Wood, we build a
lot of furniture. And recently, well,
the price of wood shot up by 20%. So,
how do we stay profitable when materials
and labor costs keep changing? Inside of
ODOU, we can actually track those costs
by setting up inventory valuation for
each component, labor rates, and work
center expenses as well. And if our
prices don't reflect those costs, we
could lose money on every single sale.
So today, I'm going to show you how to
make sure your sales reflect the true
cost of production so that you can
protect your margins. Let's get right
into it, shall we? So before we do
anything, let's configure our employee
labor rates. This directly becomes part
of the labor cost of each production
run. So if we want our product cost to
actually be accurate, this number has to
also be. So to do that, make sure the
payroll app is installed. And it looks a
little bit like that. Okay. Then you
want to make sure you go over to the
employees application and find your
employee. In this case, myself. So
inside of the settings tab, make sure
that my hourly rate is set right there
in the bottom left corner. Now, this
hourly rate doesn't update automatically
from the annual salary set in the
employee contract that we have up here.
So, we're going to need to manually
calculate and enter it to ensure
accurate labor costs in production.
Okay. Now, let's set up how ODO tracks
costs for our manufactured product. So,
we're going to go back to our main ODO
dashboard over here. And can you guess
where we're headed out? Well, we're
actually going over to our manufacturing
application once again. Okay. Now, up
here, we're going to go to products and
products. Perfect. You're getting the
hang of this right now. We're going to
select our star drawer product. So,
here's the most important step. Inside
of this category field that we have
right here, well, in this field, we set
the costing method. So, when you hover
over it, we have this nice little
internal link. Go ahead and select that
to open the product category settings.
Under the costing method over here, in
my case, I've selected Avco. I've
selected average cost and that happens
to be average manufacturing cost split
among my existing drawers that happen to
all be in stock. We're going to cover
the difference between standard price FO
and AFCO in another video. So hang
tight. But for inventory valuation to
work correctly, you're going to either
want AFCO or perhaps FIFO. And you might
get a warning as you change that. So
think about that. And as I mentioned,
there's also standard price. Going to
revert all of that. So standard price
won't automatically calculate our cost
during production. By the way, with the
manufactured product configured,
everything is done. Let's see which
components are used to build the drawer.
So we're going to go back using our
drawer breadcrumb. It's Wonderbread
today. And then we're going to select
our bill of material smart button up at
the top. And then we're going to select
our bomb. Nice. So each component here
should also have its costing method set
to AFCO for consistent valuation. Don't
be mixing stuff. So since you smart
odoers already know that the costing
method is set on the components product
category, I'm not going to show you. So
with our components ready, let's define
how long the production takes. So we're
going to head over to our operations tab
over here. And here we've set the
operation with a duration of 1 hour. Now
sharp doers probably see where this is
going. We calculate labor cost based on
the duration of working on this mo with
that hourly rage that we set up earlier.
It's using your brain right there. Makes
it a little bit easier for us to do
that. Okay. Now, the time has come to
add the cost to keep the machines
running. We can either get to the work
centers two different ways. So, either
way, in our case, you can go up to the
very top that we have up here and select
configuration and then work centers. But
we're not going to do that way. All
right, that's how you do that. Or more
quickly, if you wanted to, you select
assembly line one once, then you hover
it, and then you click on the internal
link. And there we go. And that's how
we're at. Because you know, why should
you have one path when ODO gives you
two. Okay, so over here on the right,
well, actually underneath the costing
information area, we happen to have our
cost per hour, and it is set to
$3459 per work center. Now, this
reflects the hourly cost of running this
work center. All right. Now, time to
bring it all together by processing a
manufacturing order. So, first you
actually want to close this window.
Then, we're going to close this
operations one over here as well. Now,
we're going to go to operations and
manufacturing orders. Select the one for
our drawer that we happen to have over
here. Okay. So, as the assembly line
worker, I can either click the shop
floor smart button that we have up at
the top for a nice interface, or I can
go to the barcode app to scan each
component during assembly. Check out our
consuming components during
manufacturing video for a full demo of
that. So, for now, I'm going to keep it
simple. We're just going to check the
consume boxes. See, ODO is already
starting to register all that I'm doing
over here. And then we're going to
select produce all at the top left. And
something new has appeared at the top of
the page. Can you
guess? Okay, so actually two things
appeared and one of them happens to have
been something up at the top of the page
and in the top right corner. I am now in
developer mode. You should be as well
and I'm going to explain why in a
second, but first let's check out the
cost breakdown for this manufacturing
order. So we're going to select overview
up at the top. All right. So over here
in the very top line under unit cost, we
see how much it actually cost to produce
the drawers in this MMO only.
And how did it get so expensive? Let's
see what's going on. So the first
section that we happen to have with blue
links shows components costs with each
unit price listed. But gets those
numbers from the stock valuation of
purchased items, which we're going to
look at in just a second. So, next up,
we happen to have operation costs, and
there's a line for assembly one, which
reflects our work center cost. And below
that is actually me. It's my hourly wage
based on the 1 hour duration that we set
earlier. You can see that at the $100
right there as well. That's mighty
interesting. So, if the operation took
more or less time, this number would
adjust accordingly. So, at the bottom
here, we actually get the full picture
for one drawer. We happen to have our
total cost of operations per unit which
gets us the final production cost which
happens to be the unit cost. All right,
let's dive into procurement where those
component costs that we talked about
come from. So now I could just show you
the purchase order directly through the
purchase app, but let me take you
through a series of smart buttons and
show you how I'd investigate how all the
different ODO apps, including inventory,
manufacturing, and purchase, work
together to track production costs. So
let's click on our mo breadcrumbs up at
the very top over here. And we're back
at the manufacturing order. Now, this is
where we need to make sure we turn on
developer mode. As you can tell, I
happen to be in it. And now let's click
our valuation spar button up at the top.
Perfect. So this shows us which
components were deducted from inventory
for each component after production was
completed. But how did odo get these
total values that we happen to have over
here? Well, let's click the breadcrumb
to go back to the mo that we happen to
be on and then select one of the
components. Let's pick handle. Okay, so
here we have the handle and in the
handle popup, we're going to click
handle once again and that takes us to
its product form. So from there, we're
going to click on our purchase smart
button that we actually should have up
at the very top. There we go. Okay,
let's expand this for a quick
second. So now we should click on our
topmost recent order that we happen to
have. All right, so here's our purchase
order. So this PO shows the unit price
that we paid when we bought those
components. ODU happens to actually use
that to calculate the value of what was
consumed. But that value only updates
after we receive the items. So let's
click the receipt smart button up at the
very top. So once that this is
validated, ODO creates evaluation
later evaluation layer. So let's click
on the evaluation smart button up at the
top to see the value of the received
items. If you noticed the valuation that
we happen to have this time is positive
and the valuation on the MMO was
negative because right now the items are
entering stock and the consu components
are leaving stock. Now let's bring it
all together. So let's select products
and products once again. This time we're
going to open up our drawer product all
over again. So here we have a cost field
and that shows the current average cost
per unit based on the manufacturing
orders we did before today. To update
this, we're going to click compute price
from
bomb. And what do you know? This
recalculates the average cost of all
manufactured drawers currently in stock.
Want the full breakdown of how UDO
calculates this? Check out our video on
costing methods. So, comparing this cost
to our sales price that we have over
here. All right. Um, well, I don't have
to be a math magician to see, it looks
like we're operating at a loss. Might be
time to re-evaluate our pricing strategy
to protect those margins. So, for an
overview of all production costs, not
just 1 MO, we're going to click the cost
analysis smart button. And let's go over
here. We're sometimes having to click
the more option that we have over there.
Okay. So, this gives us a bird's- eye
view of costs across every drawer that
we've ever produced. There's a lot of
information everywhere. And there you
have it. We're talking money today.
These are the out of-box tools in Odo to
help you track manufacturing costs and
inventory valuation so that you can
price smart. Thanks for watching. As
always, see you next time. Go grab a
snack. I need one.