Video: Batch Transfers | Odoo Inventory
Video ID: oGTIn2TOdkY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oGTIn2TOdkY
Playlist Index: 50
================================================================================

Hello doers, it's Stealthywood. We're
looking for ways to speed up our order
fulfillment process without creating
extra chaos. Odo has several picking
methods. Single picking, which is the
default, is one picker per order. This
is what we used to use and is
inefficient for a warehouse as big as
ours. So, batch picking is when one
picker selects products for multiple
orders at once, then sorts them at a
designated location. Wave and cluster
picking are other methods that you can
explore inside of ODO. Each with its own
strategies for shortening the time our
pickers take to grab items and get them
ready for customers. Check out our other
videos in the description for those. So,
with batch picking, you spend less time
walking back and forth in the warehouse.
You gather all the items needed for
several orders in a single run and then
sort them once that you're done. And a
quick notes, you've heard of batch
picking and batch transfers. Which one
is it? Inside of O to a batch transfer
is when we group multiple transfers
together. This can be for a picking,
internal transfer and a delivery, which
is moving a product inside the warehouse
to outside. Batch picking is a picking
method and only refers to the act of
taking items off shelves for an order to
then bring them to an output location
where the products are sorted. So, when
you hear batch picking, that's the
process of picking items for multiple
orders at once. But behind the scenes,
it's done through these batch transfer
records. Now, enough chitchat. Let's
dive into our ODO
database. So, first, let's make sure
that batch transfers are enabled. So,
we're actually going to go up to
configuration up at the very top. And
you guessed it, we're going to select
settings as we've done a thousand times
before. So under the operation section,
make sure batch wave and cluster
transfers checkbox is enabled. So
perfect. Let's actually scroll down
because I need to make my way over to
shipping over here. So I happen to have
delivery methods enabled. And under
shipping connectors over here, I have
UPS and FedEx as well. Make sure any
shipping connectors for your carriers
are activated as well. So we're actually
going to need these soon to sort orders
by carriers. So stay tuned.
So next, scroll down and we're going to
confirm something else. Where are we at?
We're looking at So here we go. Okay. So
we'll also want to make sure that we
have storage locations as well as
multi-step routes located over here
under our warehouse section both
selected as well. So that allows us to
specify exactly where our products are
stored and how they move through the
actual warehouse. If you're changing
these for the first time, don't forget
to go up to the very top left and hit
save. It'll save you time. So, next,
let's click configuration once again.
And this time, we're going to select
warehouses. We're going to select our
Stealthy Wood warehouse. Beautiful. So,
in the outgoing shipments field, we have
it set to two steps right there. In ODO,
batch transfers work with one, two, and
three-step delivery flows. So, since
batch picking involves one team picking
and bringing the products to a sorting
location, the second step is where
products get sorted into each order and
delivered. However, a singlestep
delivery can still use batch transfers.
It means you'll be sorting in real life,
but the ODO sorting step, well, that's
not going to get recorded inside of ODO.
So, for more on these steps and how many
steps you should use, check out our
basic warehouse setup tutorial that I
have. All right. So now up next, let's
make sure and I need to show you
actually how ODU does some heavy lifting
and automatically groups our orders into
batches. So we set this on an operation
type. So in our warehouse, we have
someone strategically, in other words,
manually strategically assign orders for
our pickers. But when we sort, we want
to quickly group the orders. So to do
that, we configure automatic batches by
going up to configuration. And this time
we're going to make our way over to
operation types. So perfect. You're
going to want to select delivery orders.
So in the batch wave and transfers one
that we have down here at the very
bottom, we're going to takeick the
automatic batches box right there. So
these days, we've been fulfilling a ton
of orders from about the same clients.
So we want to make sure that we actually
have carrier ticked over here on the
right. and then you'll see later. But
setting automatic batches creates
batches of delivery orders based on the
same carrier. So now let's see how we
assign or create picking tasks in our
warehouse for our warehouse workers. So
we're going to go back over to our
inventory dashboard after we manually
save by selecting overview up at the
very top. Okay. So in the pick card, we
actually happen to have five orders. I'm
going to click our little dots that we
have over here in the top right, and
we're going to select prepare batch. Oh,
look at that. So, a little bit about our
warehouse. Our shelves are very tall
since we're a large warehouse. Shelves
labeled G are at eye level. Shelves
labeled L, well, they're higher,
requiring a ladder. I can assign items
from Lshelves to Nathan. He's basically
a pro climber. Little shout out to you,
Nathan. And Gshelves to Jose. He has bad
knees, so we keep it easy for
him. All right. So right now to add
pickings to the batch, I'm going to
click add a line at the very bottom over
here. All right. So in the window expand
right now, we're going to expand our
nice little reference just so that you
could see where we're picking from.
Okay. We're going to tick all of the
boxes that we want right
here. And then once that we're done, we
just Well, I could have selected in the
top left. We hit select. Okay. So I
can't see the exact storage locations
yet. So I'm going to confirm on the
draft badge just for right now. So right
now we're going to go and confirm this.
And then right now in our detailed
operations tab, I can differentiate the
locations by whether it's on the ground
or needs a ladder to reach. Oh well,
would you actually look at that? By some
odd coincidence, all these items happen
to be located on the L shelf. You can
see that in our from area. If there were
any items located at G, I'd simply click
on the trash icon that we happen to have
and we'd make another batch for Jose
later. So next, I'm going to set the
responsible to Nathan because we talked
about this. And then we just hit save
and the batch happens to be assigned. So
next, let's get ready to pick the items
using the barcode app. So to do that, I
need the barcodes. So I'm actually going
to click the gear icon up in the top
over here. Select batch
transfer. And the barcodes and sheets
would look something like this. The
first page contains barcodes of the
batch and the pickings. And the second
page has all the product barcodes, which
we're going to need later. Now, let's
get picking. All right. So as the
picker, I'm actually going to open up
the barcode application. Now, with my
trusty scanner, which happens to be in
hand, I'm going to tap on operations
over here. If I wanted to, I could also
scan the picking barcode. But once
inside of here, we're going to select
pick. Okay, perfect. So, here we are.
So, at the very top, we actually want to
select our batches tab and then select
it again. Perfect. So, above every
product, if you could tell, it actually
shows the location for it. So, this one
says shelf one/L. So, let's walk there
right now and pretend with me. We're
going to scan our location barcode just
so that we know. Would you look at that?
All right. Then we want to scan the
first product, which happens to be the
cable management box once. So, we get
that one right there. Would you look at
that? Oh, and since I need five of
those, I'm going to scan it four more
times. Or if you wanted to, you can also
just Trying to make sure I do the math
right. Right there. You could have also
just clicked the plus one. And once that
we're done, we're going to climb down
that ladder and put the items in our
cart and move on to the next item. And
now, you know what we'll do for all of
the rest of these items, which is the
exact same thing. So, I'm going to skip
ahead by tapping on our plus one. And
we're going to move forward with pretty
much all of these as we go along, just
to make sure. All right, there we go.
We're getting everything done. And the
very last item is a sofa. So, I'm not
sure how I'm getting that down the
ladder, but thankfully I don't have to
demo moving furniture to you doers. So,
we're just going to hit plus one. Wink.
All right. Finally, it's time to drop
them off in our output location. So, if
you have two or three-step flow, the
output location is where the sorting
team finalizes everything, but the main
picking task is done. So, in our case,
we're going to hit validate, and we're
done. Okay. Okay, now let's pretend that
I'm a different user in charge of
packing and sorting. I'm going to open
up our inventory application over here.
And because we set automatic batches to
group by carrier, the delivery orders
card shows. Would you look at that? We
have two batches. Let's click into that
right there. So, in the description
column over here, we're gonna see one
for UPS and another for FedEx. So, we're
gonna open up our FedEx batch over here.
And then we're going to go to our
detailed operations tab. And here
indicated by three different transfer
numbers. All of them actually happen to
be grouped by the actual carrier. Now
I'm just going to make sure that each
order has the right items and
quantities. Okay. Okay. And then once
that we're set, we're going to select
validate in the top left corner. And
someone will take these packages to the
FedEx drop off center who will then send
it straight to our customers. And that's
it. Our orders are picked, sorted, and
ready to ship. And there you have it.
Our orders are picked, sorted, and ready
to ship. Like I just said, and we talked
through and walked through how to set up
batches and use the barcode app to pick
multiple orders in a single run. This
workflow can save your team serious time
and footsteps on the warehouse floor. If
you want to explore other picking
methods, like perhaps waiver cluster
picking, or if you need more advanced
grouping rules, be sure to check out our
other videos on the official ODO YouTube
and the documentation site. We also have
a tutorial about dispatch management.
That's if you have specific loading docs
and you need to coordinate with drivers
to deliver packages directly to multiple
dropoff points. Thank you for watching,
Odoers. I'll see you in the next one.