Video: Engineer To Order | Odoo MRP
Video ID: f-w5sVsl0Vg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f-w5sVsl0Vg
Playlist Index: 52
================================================================================

What's up, Odoers, and welcome back.
Every now and then, a customer comes to
us with a request for something a little
different, like a custom piece of
furniture that maybe you can't find
anywhere. When that happens, we don't
just say no. We switch gears and use
what's called the engineering to order
approach. ETO, as we call it, lets us go
beyond just selling products. We're able
to offer our design expertise, our
engineering knowhow, and our
manufacturing capabilities all bundled
together. It's a great way to increase
value, boost sales, and most of all,
deepen customer trust. Now, you might be
wondering, isn't this kind of like make
to order? They're definitely related,
but here's the key difference. It all
comes down to the design. With make to
order or MTO, the design is already
locked in. It's a special product that
we don't keep in stock. So once a
customer places an order, all we have to
do is follow the blueprint and build it
to spec. But with ETO or engineering to
order, there is no blueprint, at least
not yet. Our design team works with the
customer to come up with a design all
from scratch. That means ETO projects
are more collaborative and more
detailed. It also requires us to build
customers for design consultation.
And that closer relationship, it can
lead to stronger partnerships, repeat
business, and just word of mouth
referrals. All because we took that time
to build exactly what the customer
needed. So, how does this all come
together? In an ETO workflow, nothing
gets made until the order is placed and
the design is finalized. Only once we
fully understand the customer's
requirement, then we can move forward
with engineering, production, and of
course, delivery. So let's jump into ODO
and see how engineering to order works
all in
action. So for ETO projects, there are a
few things we need to set up. First,
let's head to the accounting
application. And from here, we're going
to click configuration followed by
settings and just scroll all the way
down to our analytics section. Here in
our analytics section, we just want to
make sure that the analytic accounting
feature is ticked and enabled. This
feature is crucial because it lets us
keep all project related costs like
components and labor costs all organized
in one place. Now in ETO projects, it's
extremely common to have designers,
engineers, and reviewers collaborating
closely with the customer. Since these
team members are billing for time, we
need to make sure that we're capturing
the costs accurately. So, let's also hop
into the employees
application and check out each of our
staff members that have a time sheet
cost set up under their profiles HR tab.
For example, we have our engineer here,
Cherry Nelson. And if we click into his
settings tab here, we can see that he
costs about $50 an hour. This will come
into play when we manufacture the
customer's custom order.
Now, let's make sure we can actually
track their work hours. So, we're going
to head back to our home screen and
click into our project application. From
here, I just need to click on
configuration and then settings again.
And here, we just want to double check
that time sheets is ticked and enabled.
With that turned on, our teams can log
their time directly against project
tasks, which is super handy for both
billing and analysis.
Next, to ensure we can invoice on time
sheets properly, we're going to click
into sales here on the left
sidebar. And we're just going to scroll
down to our invoicing
section. And here in our invoicing
section, we just want to make sure that
invoice what is delivered is the setting
that's ticked and
enabled. Now that the groundwork is in
place, it's time to create a project
template that we can reuse for ETO
cases. So I've already made one here and
I've named it ETO design service. This
project contains two tasks which is
design and review. And these are the
tasks that our team uses to track the
progress of each ETO project. And since
we're selling our design services
throughout this project, we need to link
it to a product in Odo. So for that,
we're just going to jump into our sales
application. Click on products followed
by products once again. And here we'll
see that I've prepared a service called
ETO design
service. This product is what we'll use
to charge customers for designing their
custom orders. And we set up the product
type here as a service. And we've also
priced this at $500 an hour. Yes, it's a
little costly. But now here's the cool
part. I've configured it so that a new
project is automatically created every
time that this product is ordered
through this create on order field here
and set as project. It's also linked to
the template that we just looked at ETO
design service. So every order kicks off
with a fresh ETO project with the
structure and stages that we're ready to
use. And just like that, we're all set
up to engineer to order a completely new
product.
at the request of a customer, of course.
So, let's get into it, shall
we? Now that everything's in place here
in the sales app, we'll place an order
for our custom ETO project and show you
how the sales design and manufacturing
process is all tracked in Odo. So, I'm
going to start by creating a new
quotation by clicking new. And this
project is for our good friend Michael
BB. So, I'm going to go ahead and type
his name in here and hit create. He's a
new customer who's requesting a
customuilt table. So, I'm going to click
add a product. And here we're going to
add our ETO design
service. We asked about the design
specs. And we'll just say based off of
similar projects that we've had in the
past, we estimate that this design will
take about 10 hours. So, I'm going to
quote him here.
Now, once that's all good, we can just
confirm this order.
And I can see that ODO has automatically
created an analytic account. And I can
view that by clicking these extra dots
here and clicking analytic distribution.
And look at that. There it is right here
for sales order 49, which matches up.
And of course, if that column isn't
available for you, just follow what I
did and click the sliders and add that
in. The analytic account is named after
the sales order number and the customer,
which makes it extremely easy to track.
And this analytic account right here is
definitely something worth remembering.
You'll also notice some new smart
buttons have appeared here at the top.
One for a project. We also have two
tasks. And if we click into the project
smart button
here, here the project is automatically
labeled with the sales order number as
well as the product name. So everything
stays organized and easy to trace. And
if we take a look here at the settings
tab and scroll down, we can see that
this is already linked to the same
analytic account that keeps our sales
services and project costs all linked
together. So since ODO's apps are fully
integrated, I could manage the entire
project and its tasks from right here in
the sales order. But for a better view
of the overall project pipeline, I'm
going to head over to our project app.
And now that we've checked our project's
details, we're ready to kick off the
design and review process. So here is
our ETO design service project that we
just created for Michael BB. So let's go
ahead and open it up. So inside we see
the tasks that were automatically
generated according to how we configured
the ETO template. Here at Stealthy Wood,
we'll typically have a designer/engineer
assigned to the project. And then our
designer/engineer will then create a
design based off of the customer's
requirements. Then the lead product
engineer aka me will review the design
and create a bill of materials before
passing it over to our manufacturing
team. So let's say our
designer/engineer Cherry has been
working on a product design. So we're
going to move this card here into in
progress. So to log his time spent and
eventually bill it, we're going to click
into this time sheets tab right here and
click add a new line here. I'm going to
change this to Cherry Nelson instead of
myself. And we're going to add a quick
description and we'll just say reviewing
customer
requests. And that only took him an
hour.
And we're also going to add another line
here. Put this for Cherry. And this time
it's for
designing a really, really,
really cool
table. And we're going to mark this down
for 7
hours. And once this is all complete,
we're just going to save this entry
manually just to make sure we have
everything here. and we'll move this
stage into
done. Then we'll use the breadcrumbs to
go back to the
project. So, next up is the review task.
And as the lead engineer, it's my turn
to weigh in. And just like before, we're
going to move this into the in progress
stage. And then followed by that, we'll
click into our time sheets tab. And this
is so we can log my hours this time. So,
we're going to click add a line. We'll
leave this on me. And I'm just gonna put
design review. And believe it or not,
this was a long review and it took me
four
hours. So we'll go ahead and save this
once again, mark this as done, and move
it into the done
stage. And with the design and review
stages wrapped up, we're ready to move
this onto the next phase of the
process. Now that we've finalized the
design, it's time to put the product
specs into the bill of materials here in
Odo. so we can hand it off to our
skilled manufacturing team. But before
we do that, let's set up our work center
costs. So the costs to keep our lights
on in our shop floor get factored into
the cost of the overall project. So
we're going to head over to the
manufacturing
application. Then I'll click into
configuration followed by work centers.
Now, if you don't see work centers in
your menu, just a heads up, you'll need
to enable them in the manufacturing
settings like we've done in the work
centers basic video. But here, I've
already set up two work centers, one for
cutting and one for assembly. And I've
already assigned a cost per hour to
each. And that's important because these
hours will directly feed into the total
cost of manufacturing.
Next, let's take a look at the bill of
materials or bomb. We're going to head
over to products followed by bill of
materials. And here we have several ETO
product bombs listed here, but we're
going to click into the blank one that's
also referenced as
template. All of our ETO products use
this one as a starting point. and
creating one ahead of time isn't
required, but it keeps all of our custom
design projects linked together and
helps us save time when we have a handy
template for future
products. So, to customize it for our
current project, I'll go ahead and
duplicate
this. And now I'm going to change this
template reference to say S
O49 which is in reference to the sales
order number for Michael
BB. And I'll also click into the
miscellaneous tab right
here. Here I'll assign the analytic
account that we created earlier for this
sales order. And we just have to add it
here in the project section.
And this will add the costs of the MMO
to our project and keep all the related
costs in one
place. Now we can start adjusting the
components to match the customer
specifications. So we're just going to
click into the components tab
here. Here I'll click add a line. And
the customer Michael has a really unique
request and wants a maplewood table with
seven stainless steel legs. You know
what they say, the customer is always
right in terms of taste, I guess. So,
with that said, we'll add the maple wood
table. And then let's go ahead and add
seven stainless steel legs to
this. Now, it's also important to make
sure that your component costs are set
up correctly. If we click into our Mabel
tabletop
product through this link
here, we're able to see that this
component costs us
$250. This is important because these
costs are also added to the expenses
section of this ETO project. Now, if I
use the breadcrumbs to get back to this
bill of
materials, the component cost will
always be reflective of the quantity
that the bomb is requesting. This
ensures that the amount consumed in the
operation becomes the total component
costs of the
operation. So here over in the
operations tab, I'll adjust the timing
as well. For cutting, I'm going to keep
the duration to 60 minutes, but for
assembly, we'll also upload a PDF
worksheet for the assembly employee to
follow. And I can do that simply by
clicking into here on the assemble
operation. We're just going to add our
worksheet here by selecting PDF and
selecting upload file. Then we'll just
choose our
PDF. And once it's uploaded and looks
good, I'm just going to click save. So
our employees can reference this during
the manufacturing process. And just like
the components, you can always add or
remove operations here based on what the
customer needs. It's flexible, just like
the ETO process itself.
All right, we're finally ready to create
the manufacturing order. So, let's head
to operations followed by manufacturing
orders. On the MO page, I'm just going
to click new in the upper leftand
corner. And since we're producing one
custom ETO table, I'll start by
selecting the product ETO
product. Here, I also want to make sure
that we're using the correct bill of
materials. And we're going to make sure
we're using the one with sales order 49
in reference. So we'll hit this option
here and select sales order 49 ETO
project. That way we're pulling in the
exact configuration that we set up
earlier. Now is also a good time to
quickly review the components and
operations just to confirm that
everything looks
right. Looks good to me. And once that
all checks out, we'll go ahead and click
confirm to confirm the manufacturing
order.
Next, let's hop over to our work orders
tab. Here, I'll say that all the
operations, cutting, and assembly were
completed exactly as planned. So, I'm
just going to click produce all. And
when I do, this completes the
manufacturing process for this ETO
product. You'll also notice that ODO
gave us a unique serial number right
here. And as you can see, it's labeled
as serial number O8. Let's also remember
that for later. Now, heading back to the
components tab, I can double check and
see that we've used all the quantities
and materials here in the consumed
column. This ensures all the directions
for our one-of-a-kind table has been
followed. And that's it. We've gone from
a custom sales order to a fully
manufactured ETO product. Now that our
product is finished, let's head back to
the sales order to wrap things up. So,
we'll just hit our home screen here. Hop
into the sales application and select
our sales order with Michael
BB. And now it's time to charge the
customer for the product that we just
manufactured. So, I'm going to select
add a
product, select ETO
product, and then for the unit price
here, we're going to charge him
$2,000. Then I'll go ahead and click
save.
And you'll notice a new smart button has
appeared showing that we've got one
delivery task to complete. So let's go
ahead and do that now and click into
this delivery smart
button. And on the product line, we're
just going to select this hamburger icon
right here. And we just want to verify
that we are using the right product to
deliver. And in this case, it's the ETO
product with the serial number O8.
And once that's been added to the
delivery order, you can just click save
here and then
validate. And just like that, the custom
product has been delivered. Closing the
loop on our engineering to order
workflow in
Odo. Now we need to invoice the
customer. So let's go back to the sales
order through the breadcrumbs here at
the
top. And now we're just going to click
create invoice. And I'll also use the
regular invoice option followed by
create
draft. So observant odoers may remember
that we originally added 10 hours to the
sales order. However, since we worked a
total of 12 hours, ODO recognized the
extra hours and updated it on the
invoice. That being said, this invoice
looks good. So I'm going to click
confirm.
Last thing, since I've completed the
sales flow, let's review the project
details in the project
app. I'll select the three dots in the
right corner of our ETO project and then
I'll select dashboard under the
reporting section. Here I can see all of
the costs associated with the project
from the revenues costs and overall
profit at the
bottom. And that's a wrap. With just a
bit of setup, engineering to order can
be a gamechanging strategy, giving your
teams the tools they need to build
exactly what your customers want while
keeping your costs and revenue crystal
clear in one space. Thanks for watching
and remember when it comes to custom
manufacturing, it's not can you do it,
it's oh do it.