Video: Manufacturing Planning | Odoo MRP
Video ID: 4laFf9MnH6I
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4laFf9MnH6I
Playlist Index: 54
================================================================================

What's up, Odoers? Welcome back. Here at
Stealthy Wood, our customers have been
going absolutely wild for our keyboards,
and we're manufacturing more than ever
before. We use work orders and work
centers to define how and where our
manufacturing is done. But with
increased demand comes an increased need
for us to be able to automate scheduling
our work order operations and manually
fine-tune them. Fortunately for us, work
center planning is here to the rescue to
handle all the scheduling conflicts and
optimizations for our work centers for
us. So, let's clickity clack away at
scheduling work orders to see how
planning is done here in Odo. So, let's
begin with an overview of our super
popular custom keyboard. In the
manufacturing application, all we're
going to do is click products at the
top, followed by products once again,
and we're going to select our custom
keyboard product. Now to see what's
involved in manufacturing one of these,
we just have to click this build
materials smart button here at the top.
And here we're going to select our
custom keyboard build
materials. In the components section, we
can see that this product requires five
different components. And when I move on
to the operations tab, I can see that
there are four different operations
required to make this custom keyboard. I
also have five different work centers
set up. The work centers are defining
where we perform each operation. We can
also get a better look at these work
centers if I click on configuration at
the top followed by work centers. Now, a
lot of our assembly operations happen at
our keyboard assembly work center. And
as you can see here, we also have a
keyboard assembly 2 as an alternative
work center. Keyboard assembly 2 is an
alternative place to perform these
assembly operations. See our video on
alternative work centers to learn how we
did that. But moving on, I'm going to
click on our lubrication station to see
how it's
configured. For all of these work
centers, I have the working hours set to
the standard 40 hours a week. To see
more information on how this schedule is
configured, we can click this internal
link arrow right here. To see a full
breakdown of the working hours, which is
Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. with a 1 hour break at noon
because, you know, people got to eat.
Anyways, OD will schedule work orders
within these times. If we need to change
the hours it uses, we would do that
here. So, let's create a manufacturing
order for one of these keyboards. To do
that, I'm going to click operations at
the top, followed by manufacturing
orders. And then I'll click this new
button here in the upper leftand corner
and add our custom keyboard into the
product field.
And from here I can click
confirm. And if I click on the work
orders tab down below, I can see that
lubricate switches is our first
operation. That happens at the
lubrication station and takes about 20
minutes. And when I click plan at the
start, ODO will start looking for the
next available time after the scheduled
date where there is capacity in the
lubrication station and schedule our
first operation.
Then next ODU schedules the next
operation which is install stabilizers
and that's at the student's availability
of our keyboard assembly workstation but
only after the previous operation has
been completed. If keyboard assembly is
busy by the time the first operation is
finished will look at the keyboard
assembly 2 workstation for availability
so we can get those keyboards
manufactured and out the door as soon as
possible.
So that's what planning looks like
within just one product. But let's start
getting this operation up to capacity
and take a look at all of our
manufacturing
orders. So from here, we're going to
click on the operations button at the
top of the screen, followed by
manufacturing orders, so we can view and
manage all of the MOS that our company
is currently working on. The MO for the
custom keyboard that we just ordered is
right here down
below. And the rest of these MOS are the
products that Stealthy Wood will be
producing next. Now I can also see which
manufacturing orders we still need to
complete and all we need to do is focus
on these MOS in the future and plan for
another productive week. Pretty simple,
right? We can also see that all these
MOS are available to produce because all
the components we need to produce these
products are fully in stock. So some of
these MOS were scheduled for several
days ago. So we better get them
scheduled. To do that, I'm just going to
tick the check box next to all the MOS
and then click this plan button here at
the
top. ODU will assign work centers to
each of the manufacturing orders that I
have planned and create a schedule based
on the capacity of each work center and
the work order duration. If we look at
the start date column, we can see that
most of these start dates were changed
to today. So, OD is trying to schedule
all the orders that were overdue or due
today as soon as possible. Now let's
take a look at how all these orders were
planned for us. We can start by clicking
planning at the top followed by planning
by
production so we can see how the
operations were scheduled and organized
by manufacturing order. If I click the
list view button here on the right, it
makes things a little bit easier to
read. From here, I'm just going to click
the drop- down arrow for this first mo.
So we can see how everything here was
scheduled for this first operation here,
lubricate switches. This is scheduled to
start at 10:44 and is expected to take
20 minutes as indicated by the end time
here. Right after that, we have the
second step which is install
stabilizers. That's scheduled at the
next work center. And each work order
operation starts as soon as the last one
finishes because there was nothing else
already scheduled at these work centers.
With later work orders, we'll see bigger
gaps between operations as ODO optimizes
scheduling each step as early as
possible while respecting the capacities
of the work center. And so it goes.
Let's see what this looks like from each
work center scheduling perspective. I'll
click planning back at the top, but this
time select planning by work center. So
we can see our scheduled
operations. This is organized by where
they happen. And we can also view the
schedule by week by clicking this
calendar button here at the top left and
selecting this
week. This Gant view shows the schedule
for all MOS that we planned earlier and
also the occupied timetable of each work
center. You may notice that blocks of
the same color are a part of the same
manufacturing
order. And these green highlighted
regions here on the left indicate
scheduled hours for the work center. The
total capacity is based on the hours of
operation which in this case is 40 hours
max with 16 hours planned. If no more
work orders are scheduled, then Steve
can chill in the break room for the
remaining hours of the week. And moving
on, if we click the calendar icon here
in the top
right, we can see all the work center
schedules hour by hour. And wow, this is
a really busy day. So, poor Steve. Here,
the colors correspond to each of the
work centers on the right side panel. I
can also uncheck all of these work
centers with the exception of
lubrication
station just so I could see each work
center scheduled one at a time. If an
operation carries over to the next day,
that's due to limitations imposed by
working hours and capacity. And you
know, Steve can only do so much. Now, if
I click the Gant icon in the top right
of my screen, I can go back to our
original view and click the calendar
icon on the top left and select today.
So, we can take a look at what's
scheduled for today. I can also drag
work orders to simply reschedu them. And
when I do, oh no, it turned a different
color. If that happens, it means that
there's a problem with scheduling. And
for this issue, I'm not too sure what
the conflict is yet, but I'm confident
that it can be fixed. ODO always has a
solution. So, to see alerts, we can
click this list view icon here in the
top right. And I'm also going to exit
out of this work center filter to
ungroup my operations and just show me
the entire
list. In the far right column, I can see
some icons. And if I click this purple
eye
icon, ODO is warning me that this step
in the manufacturing process is still
waiting for another one to complete. And
if I scroll down and click this red
exclamation
warning, OD will tell me that this work
order is planned at the same time as
another work order. But regardless of
what kind of scheduling conflict we've
encountered, this handy replan button
right here is here for me. And if I
click
it, voila, our scheduling conflicts are
resolved. And there you have it. We now
know how to get ODU to schedule your
work order operations across all
available workstations, how to manually
adjust the planned operations, and how
to resolve any errors that come up. I
hope you've leveled up your ODU
knowledge that you can now use to
improve your planning process. Until the
next video, I'll see you next time.